Description
This SQL programming project involves the creation of a database host application that
interfaces with a backend SQL database implementing a Library Management System. Users of
the system are understood to be librarians (not book borrowers).
Milestone 1
The first milestone involves normalizing the given data into Third Normal Form (3NF). You are
given two plain text CSV files (books.csv and borrowers.csv). The files should be
normalized into separate files that are compatible with the schema defined below. Note that
initially you do not have any information about records in either book_loans or fines tables.
Your team’s submission should contain five items:
1) book.csv
2) book_authors.csv
3) authors.csv
4) borrower.csv
5) The source code to the file or files that performs the normalization
All files should be bundled into a single archive file for upload (zip, gzip, or tar).
Schema
The schema for the library database is derived from (but NOT the same as) the library schema in
the textbook (Figure 6.6). The actual schema used for this project is provided below. You are
permitted to modify or augment this schema provided that your system (a) is backwards
compatible with the given schema, and (b) adheres to the written requirements. As long as your
system supports the documented functionality, you may add any features you deem useful.
Data
• All data is provided in plain text CSV files. Note that there is not a one-to-one, file-to-
table correspondence. The Milestone 1 part of your system design task is to map (i.e.
normalize) these data onto your schema and tables.
• All book id's are 10-character ISBN numbers (i.e. some contain alpha characters). Note
that some may contain leading zeroes. These are part of ISBN and should not be
truncated!
• Both AUTHORS.Name and BORROWER.Bname are a single string that represents a full
name. You may choose to make these derived attributes and store the first, middle, and
last names in additional separate attributes. All titles and person names should use the
same case conventions after normalization. Note that your given source data does not
respect any person naming conventions.